# FinalProjectInfo201

Here is the shiny link for the web app: https://kkapadia10.shinyapps.io/FinalProject_Car_Data_KadenKapadia/

The dataset being used for this webapp is called Used and New Cars Datasets and can be accessed through the website kaggle.com. The data set was updated by George Baffour. 
The goal of the dataset is to let the user choose their ideal car and to find a car that fits all their desired requirements. 
The data consists of several variables necessary for buyers to look at before buying cars, such as the Model, Year, Status, Mileage, Price, and MSRP of the car. 
In the Welcome panel, the user gets introduced to background information regarding the dataset. The user also learns the number of car observations and useful variables there are in the dataset. Also, they can see a random sample of 10 car data values from the dataset.
In the scatter plot, the user can select a certain car model and based on that, the plot shows them a comparison of the price vs mileage for all the cars of that model. I am aiming to reveal the trend that as mileage increases, the price value of the car decreases. Additionally, the color options lets the user choose if they want the data points to be red, orange, green, blue, or purple. Additionally, the scatter plot tells you the slope of the data points. If the slope is negative, we see that the general trend that as the mileage increaes, the price increases is proven. However, in some, rare, cases, the slope is positive. In this case, the general trend is rejected. 
In the bar plot, the user can examine how the average price of the car and the manufactured year compare when the maximum desired mileage changes. Using the bar plot you can easily examine the trend in the data which is as the maximum mileage increases, the number of cars avaialble also increases. Additionally, you can see the there is no correlation between maximum mileage and price.
In the table, the user can select a minimum year. From this, the table will output all the data about the cars that were manufactured later than that year. Additionally, the user has the option to select if the table should show 10, 25, 50, or 100 entries. Also, the user can search for a specifc car to see all the available data about that car.
